[Music]
may 31st
1911 the second olympic class liner is
finally complete after two years of
construction
it'll be ready for its first voyage a
year later
it's the most luxurious ship in the
world
[Music]
they call it titanic
you just read the groundbreaking news in
the daily herald
and decide to treat yourself to a trip
on this floating gym
you head over to the white star lines
headquarters in london to buy yourself a
ticket
you get the cheapest first class fare
for 30 pounds
that would be over four thousand five
hundred dollars today
wednesday april 10th 1912.
the day is finally here you must be in
southampton at 9 30 a.m
the third class passengers board the
ship first
then the second and first classes follow
an hour before the vessel set sail
stewards on board welcome everyone and
show them to their cabins
now it's your turn the majestic ship in
front of you is bigger than you imagined
as you board the titanic captain edward
smith himself greets you
your trip will begin shortly by the time
the liner stops at sheaborg in
queenstown
over 2 200 passengers and crew will be
on board
embarking on their transatlantic trip
the titanic is ready to sail
and you hear the horns from the deck as
you wave goodbye to the people below
but just a few minutes later you hear
panic rising on the deck
you run up to the railings to see what's
going on it's another ship coming too
close the side of it says
ss city of new york titanic has barely
left the dock
but it looks like there's about to be a
collision the captain manages to steer
clear of the other ship
within just a few feet that was close
the ship is scheduled to arrive in new
york a week later
on april 17th but that's only if things
go according to plan
the weather is clear until sunday the
14th
as the vessel crosses a cold front it
encounters
huge waves and strong winds that night
is quiet but
cold the titanic starts getting warnings
from other ships
about drifting blocks of ice in the
grand banks of newfoundland
but this time the great ship doesn't
continue to travel at full speed
instead the captain slows her down he
wants to make sure the lookouts will
have plenty of time to spot any icebergs
along the way
even if it means arriving in new york
behind schedule
it's 11 40 in the evening lookout
frederick fleet
spots a colossal iceberg right ahead
he immediately alerts the bridge the
first officer tells the steersman to go
around the iceberg
and the rest of the crew members must
stop the engines right away
everyone on board is working together to
avoid the obstacle
but in this story the steersman doesn't
panic
he immediately turns the wheel the right
direction away from the iceberg
many passengers have already been awoken
by the commotion and jostling
some go on the deck in their nightgowns
and pajamas to see what's going on
a few peek over the right side of the
ship to get a closer look
you and everyone else watch anxiously
with white knuckle grips on the railing
the stress and cold make you shiver you
can't help but wonder if the titanic
will collide with the iceberg
it's getting closer and closer onlookers
hold their breath
it's so quiet you can hear a pin drop
and then
within a mere inch the ship slowly sails
by the ice monster
there was no contact no gap ripped in
the hull hundreds of feet long that
would allow water to flood into the
lower compartments
everyone starts clapping and hugging
each other
after doing all the necessary checks the
captain officially announces that
everything is
all right he invites the passengers on
the deck to come inside for a hot cup of
tea
before they go back to their cabins you
follow the group and see the captain
leaving to go report the incident
he also alerts other ships in the north
atlantic to slow down
and be on the lookout amongst those
ships is the carpathia
nope she continues on her course no need
to come to titanic's rescue tonight
rms titanic finally reaches its
destination
on april 17 1912. it's eight hours late
but it's safe thousands of people come
to the new york docks to admire the most
luxurious ship in the world
it had a successful first voyage before
getting off the ship
some passengers exchange addresses to
write letters to each other
like tennis players richard norris and
carl bear
both were on board the titanic but this
time
norris didn't spend hours in the cold
water of the north atlantic trying to
help other passengers
almost losing his legs to hypothermia
and bear
was never on a lifeboat with his
girlfriend where he asked her to marry
him
no this time he did it with friends and
family around
and they all celebrated the engagement
the two tennis players end up playing
their first match together later in
1912.
norris became one of the best players of
his generation
and won the davis cup five times
margaret brown was going back to the u.s
to see her sick grandchild
this time she didn't have to help
passengers get on lifeboats
and never got on lifeboat 6 herself
when brown gets off the ship she runs to
her grandson's side
this time she never met the crew or the
captain of the carpathia to give them an
honorary silver cup she kept doing
philanthropic work
but she never became known as the
unsinkable
molly brown violet jessup never liked
the idea of sailing in the north
atlantic
because she knew how bad the weather
could be she was cautious
having just survived a crash a few
months earlier it was on the titanic
sister ship the olympic
but her friends convinced her to join
the legendary ship's crew
this time she was never called on deck
to help passengers
and never boarded lifeboat 16. she
continued working on the titanic until
her retirement
meaning she was never taken on as a
nurse of the britannic
and in november 1915 it didn't become
the third shipwreck
jessup would survive band master wallace
hartley
went on the voyage to make new possible
contacts for future work
but he kept playing to entertain
passengers
this time he never played music to a
panicked crowd of people while the ship
was sinking
he survives he goes home to his fiancee
gets married and starts a family he
continues entertaining people on the
north atlantic run
this time his morning fiancee never
received his violin
and the historic titanic memorabilia was
never
sold in 2013 for 1.7 million
dollars bertha maine met the love of her
life quigg
baxter in brussels while he was
traveling with his mother and sister
baxter wanted to take maine with him so
he secretly booked her a cabin
under the name mrs devillier this time
he never had to guide his family to a
lifeboat his family met his girlfriend
when they got off the ship
not on lifeboat six this time baxter
survived
he returned to canada with his
girlfriend and she never went back to
europe alone
maine's nephew would never find a shoe
box in her closet
with memories from the titanic dorothy
gibson was playing bridge that night
with a couple of new york bankers
when she went back to her stateroom with
her mother she never heard that long
sickening crunch
and never got on lifeboat 7. and in may
1912 she doesn't star in a movie about
surviving the titanic
because there was no crash to survive
she went on to do great things
and she eventually moved to france with
her mom
in this hypothetical story the titanic
went on to have a successful career
it was the most luxurious ship for many
years to come
it did the north atlantic run countless
times and it successfully delivered
passengers and mail where they needed to
go
after 25 years in service the old liner
was scrapped
another large vessel replaced it it had
more room for lifeboats
and a large enough deck for people to
walk and play
the white star line company would
eventually merge with their competitors
but this time because their ships didn't
sink
they made enough profit to continue
going strong
in 1980 the company would become a major
airline
their first trip was from dublin to new
york the plane was nicknamed titanic
in honor of the airline's historic ship
and this time
in 1985 the only thing oceanographers
find at the bottom of the north atlantic
is corals fish and mollusks and
a rather large blue diamond necklace
hold on
nah just some broken blue glass never
mind